And perhaps you.
Could just start by introducing yourself in terms of how are you Scottish or whatever and background and so on. Are either of you first?
Well. I've lived in Scotland for. Since 1969, off and on. Born in England with a Scottish mother and an English father and married to a Scotsman. Who is?
Just.
Say, lift your life 1st 26 years in Rutherglen. And since then, Hamilton.
And are you are your parents also? Are they also Scottish?
Yes.
I thought you were.
My mate just been born in England, a bit from just a month or two old. She was brought to Glasgow.
So to consider yourself to be Scottish, you wasn't actually born here.
Yes, very. Grandparents would be English but. Micro chips.
What did they do?
Well, the grandfather died before my mother was born, actually, so.
Right.
I think he was an alum to reminder. Here is what Armature Winder was it amateur Winder? Somebody wings. Amateur motors, right? What's an amateur?
Thank you.
It's coiled. I'm part of the law firm, electrical water.
Electrical coil on a motor.
Can be aware of the word. Didn't know then.
In those days. Women didn't work, but. My grandfather was my grandmother, was widowed. She opened a shop near Celtic Park.
Silly.
In suite. And such like. So I'm told because all my all four of my grandparents were deceased before I was born. I never knew anything.
So I do.
I'm. An Irish drama my my maternal grandmother was of Irish stock. I can't have to remember my name at the moment, but it was there. She came up from Ireland so they came over to Scotland from Ireland. Yes, there's quite a lot of Irish in northern England I think.
Liverpool and Newcastle. Yeah, well, same as Glasgow, yeah.
No, that was my maternal or not maternal. As far as I know, my dad's parents are both well and truly English. Mum's mum's from.
And he's still got relatives around the Dundee area.
Forward on the. Yeah.
Well, my father had strong dindi connections.
Did he have any particular words that he used that weren't there were that's to pinned him down as Dundee rather than the West Coast?
Anything that you remember was different, but I remember because. I don't really know what Dundee wants to say. That's what I do there, just words.
Well, there there is. Can a lot to do that? Can they cancel?
That's up north, that's.
No. Did you? And the rest of the families that love didn't because she's been engaged a long time. But I used to say, Ken. But one thing when we're talking about this at the apple or anything recently, which is a word I hadn't heard since childhood. Yeah, my mother called it apple ringing. But Dad's dad called it. What was it? Flecky now. And yet he was from the Dundee area.
No. Well, it wasn't the family connection, but clay bank. He lived in all his life till he got married.
All right, some background I'll give you.
To fill in the back story of this because obviously I I know what you're talking about, but the rest of the.
Right.
Not have the ringing is what?
It's Sutton Wood or Artemisia. And the only time I'd ever heard this called Apple ringing was as a child. It was in the garden and it was always apple ringing.
It's very scented, isn't it?
I was. I just. That's very self herbally smell and I always used to have this picture of kind of rings of apple with the the coal missing. It's always brought up in the world, sort of dryings of Apple. It was all that I thought about. And then this flicky nail. I think we looked at flicky. I can't remember what it meant, but we. Up. Because you weren't sure how it was spelled.
I don't know.
Right. I would spell FLECHIE.
Does the flecky part of the word mean anything particular? Yeah, but I can't remember. We'd have to look at the dictionary, right? Probably.
We worked out kind of how it came to be called. The only other kind of Scottish word I can remember, it sticks in my mind when I was young was the word sleekest, because I didn't even know it was Scottish until I used it in a. It was an essay, and it was. I was writing about a character in something like bar Chester Towers. Who was called? I think it was slope. We had the name that suggested his character. And I used the word sleekest and I got the essay back and it was a query beside it. And luckily the the English teacher was Scottish. She was from Glenrothes, so he knew what it meant, but I didn't. Well, apparently not, no, he said.
But it's quite, is it not quite common or well known as a Scottish? Word no. Exactly. Yeah. It's like it's.
Right. Well, how many people in England would know much about Burns?
But if they knew anything, that would be the line they'd know.
Hmm. It seemed apparently was a work I shouldn't be using English essay because it was just a Scottish word. Stuck in the mind so.
When you move it up to Scotland, what did you notice? Any did it come as a shock? Did you?
The first thing that happened got off the train at Queen St. In January 1969.
Coming up from South.
That's where we got off from, through up to Edinburgh and then across.
Right, right.
And it was ranked and. Were all these strange people on? The station, who would what would? To 'cause, they were all dressed up and everything. I'm trying to think. I thought it. January but. It's. Think all these weird people and then before we came once, we'd applied for jobs and got jobs and there was a story in the paper about a body found in a bin in Glasgow. Which hand made us think twice about it?
Yeah.
And then we met in 1971. At. And remember that man. Oh the.
Pink elephant, the white elephant.
No.
Wait quite a lot of. It's sucking on street.
In Glasgow, yes.
Oh, I can't remember.
Just several, is it still there or is it still? Club in the same area.
It is. There is still a club there. I'm sure it was on the 1st floor of a building. And we met there because we were both in new conservatives. It was a young conservative discount.
Isn't there a story that you you were there with a friend and the friend said you have the lanky 1?
Yeah.
I want the other one.
You've taken the big enough.
I don't think you.
You take the big one.
Yeah, that was golden.
And that was that was.
Yes, hotless, yeah.
So it was a good partner.
Oh yes, even was when we went in 1970.
What was after you had?
1971 who went down to Tunbridge Wells and she met him down there. In spending the.
Question. So was Glasgow like in those days in the early 70s, sixties, early 70s? Well, what was that? What was that club or disco like? What, what sort of?
Although it's one of these big blitter. But that was that.
In the early 70s, so they're they're.
Yeah, yeah. And another place that was popular was the majestic. For dancers.
Known as the Magic Stick.
The magic stick. And then there was the Highlanders near Charing Cross. Which was? That's the granny. Rightly, if you got dancing there, you got flung around the room. Does that sort of Scottish country?
Survival of. Saturday night.
Dancing is that is that.
Yeah. Yeah. So that's fairly stunning.
You did in the the one in Sochi or?
No, that was so far, you know, so rock and soft and stuff. Yeah, yeah.
And they all finished up at 10:00 at night and you got bus home.
We didn't from there because Gordon had a car, Gordon. I'm sure he had a counsellor then yes. OK.
Oh, that night. Well, he used this models minivan photos wouldn't get into that.
Into a minivan. How many was there? Well, I wouldn't have been sitting in the back with no sense. There'd be two.
Well, like a mini car, there was a van, a van version of it, mini.
In the front.
All right, right. I see, I thought you meant it was. Van but.
Well, it was a van. Just two windows at the front panels behind.
Right, but like a dull boy.
Or cab four way.
Than that. It's like the mini. It's the period of the mini car.
With more department stores in Glasgow, then big ones in Saugehall St in Copeland and Lye, Pettigrew's and then there was another one.
It looks like.
She hi was up where the?
It's very old. I see. Fair on EC.
Right. That was where the McClellan galleries are now.
Laser thread old.
And there was another one, new heads or something further down on the same? As that.
Basically, do 2 phrases, phrases and Lewis's. That was the way of thinking in his. This have made.
Then there were less there were fewer. Sort of change jobs. Yeah, yeah. It all tended to be the big part, which were excellent. You could get anything, especially Copeland line. Remember, these have a good sort of haberdashery department.
Pictures.
And there was a lovely restaurant is Ma Browns. It's called M and a Browns the cake shop. There's a restaurant downside downstairs for us.
Yeah.
Does that not be there? Has there not? A cake. Still.
No, that's Bradford, Sir. It's different.
I was further down because my brain sounds familiar. Well, it was probably around while you were young. It was the downstairs.
So you might have been there for high. One night.
Mm. Don't explain the concept of a high tea. You don't think that's the universal.
Well, it's more Scottish than English, I'd say. You don't really get half season England. So you could do that one.
Exactly, yeah.
Well. There was a meal that you had around early evening. Consisting of often fish and chips.
And main course.
Certainly fish and chips would feature.
Stick pie, gummon and pineapple.
Bread and butter from one an air.
Toast or bread? And then they do coffee with capes.
Choice of tea or coffee. Which came with a meal.
On a plate.
A teared. Yeah, cake. Do you think? Yeah.
Choice of. Well, probably stories.
Usually a scholarly.
Or trumpets pancakes could.
You just. I don't really remember this. Well, I do remember the concept, but I don't obviously wasn't paying for things when I was like 5. So did you did you pay for what you had or did?
Oh, right. Yes, that's right.
Pay for the whole.
Lot. You could eat them all if you wanted. Oh, well, there we there was a limited amount put. Like if there at a table for four there before cakes out.
Yeah. Right, right. You'd fight over there, so.
And you can't. Well, no. You kind of eye up deciding which one you want to do.
I remember doing that.
Pineapple cake. Eiffel Tower planning cake.
Yeah. Yeah. Remember down at air at the was it the County hotel in the square there and were there with Peg and Ted from America and you? Yeah. And grandma was there as well. And the kids came. And I remember there were a couple of sort of good cream cakes and then kind of ordinary things.
I don't know.
Yes.
I think. How long was I remember that was called in Belgium? Biscuits. I don't know why, but they were. Biscuits when?
She made them. Is that because? Is that because of her Scottish roots or English thing? Or just a quick?
I don't know.
Well, probably not. Close Empire biscuits up here, but the world's belting biscuits around them.
Yeah.
Oh, store these. That's another thing. Store these. That's very Scottish.
A lot of my household was.
Oh well, that gets very dumb too, so.
What did you in your household? What meals do you remember from?
Then you have days of days of the week things.
And those. Yes. Then it was no, no.
Will you?
I we had fish on a Tuesday because fishing boats didn't go on a Sunday night for religious reasons, for fishermen being very superstitious. So when I went out on a Monday night back on a Tuesday, we get fresh fish every Tuesday for.
Right.
Tea that night. I fish. Fish is something that Roman Catholics have on a Friday.
Yeah. Why is that? Is it because they avoid meat? Yeah.
So, prophecy, prophecy, households didn't happen. Yes, that's right.
What's?
Artificial.
So I don't know.
Kotter had us is always a happy.
Yeah, no. Sometimes we better be lemon soul. Probably.
OK. Finished again we had.
A yes. Smoked and dyed it could have been.
So.
And then we would have hearing the mother would make potted heading in the summer months pairing from Loch Fyne.
That rule mops used to buy those in.
Yes.
The fishmonger remember the fishmonger and fruit shop combined.
He used to get all mobsters.
Mcfisher.
Mac Fisher is a cheese. He used to get real mots in BHS and Hamilton when they had a when they got. I didn't like them, but Pat used to buy them.
Oh, yes, probably.
Well, I don't think I had them, but I didn't think I liked them.
His business in Glasgow is still there called adding fees, who are fishing fish merchants and their slogan vans was fresh from the sea to add a McPhee.
Right. There's one in Bynes Rd. It's Jack Murphy, though, isn't it? Oh, well, it's probably the same family, right? Because I was thinking they use that slogan. I think they.
Officially.
None of that was delivering to the shops.
So did you come back? Sorry. Did you come around the van? The fish? Right. So you describe the.
Shopping but wasn't one deal with the remains of the Sunday roast that was the Monday deal.
Yes, bald ham knows bee. Chicken.
Yeah.
Stop on the Monday.
Who may consider.
All right, but. I don't trust. And then. Rice pudding. Boiled. Baked rice. OK, it's an item like skin.
Oh, big time. The skin on. Oh, I love that brand.
Not greatly.
Do you like me? Not megna. Still not. Didn't think you had a problem with that mega?
I'll probably going to ignore it all together. If it was there, but.
Did you know?
Yeah.
Specify nutmeg on my. It was semolina, semolina, sometimes, which I didn't like. And it would be, well, my mother never made things like tapioca and seagull.
Because she didn't like mother.
Probably the texture of them shouldn't like, and I've certainly never took to those myself. Here I heard something on radio just this morning and it brought back a memory and how many by Jelly these days to make a Jelly dessert?
Yeah.
It's a Jelly texture and you get you used to get. I remember when I got used to make Jelly pistols.
Somebody's found the last tin of crimola form in the world shop.
Yes.
Really. Yeah. Why don't you stop making that?
Actually stopped. It's only.
When you were little or had up to the. I'm sure.
He's great.
About seven or eight years ago, probably.
We used to buy lemonade powder in walls. She used to buy loose like by the quarter pound or something. Shove it in a bag for you, which I suppose it was optional. The form thing it.
And.
Always lemonade, yeah.
No, I think it's going to museum, isn't it? I can't remember. Oh, no. Somebody is buying it to try and track the ingredients so they could start making it again.
To underline.
Although whether Nestle or allow them to do that or not, I don't know, because it might still have the the rights to it. Well, I could call it, but yeah, that's what's going to happen to it.
I don't think you'll have a copyright over no random list of ingredients.
Well, you could have applied to well cooked.
It was a criminal form 1.
I say they have. No, they haven't everything to change.
But that's why they keep an ingredient secret, presumably so that you can't copy it because.
Uh, huh. So, you know she can analyse all the ingredients in criminal form. Probably you could do it in Coca-Cola, but it's not.
OK.
If indeed there is a secret ingredient.
Sorry, I was going to say you never said to school lunch yesterday.
Or me? No, no, never, never once to have school lunch.
Or something else went.
Did you do know what sort of things people had at school lunches?
Home for lunch. So I heard stories of what? And Stew. I don't know if it was health giving healthy or not. Well, nothing like burgers, they didn't exist in those days.
Yeah.
But. There's nothing. Well, cabbage always smelt the whole school out when it was getting boiled up in the. Canteen. It never smelled very satisfying.
The worst job was when you're on dinner duty, when you have to clear the tables and have to go to the slot bin with everything. I remember I dropped the plate in once.
Tell anybody you discover it. I was more deprived.
Refer every individual with to take their own pick by.
VED no. You had a sort of monitor system. And you have sort of probably on for a week and you were the one who cleared the table or something or the one who brought the mashed potatoes or something. Brought to the table in big bins. And the best pudding was fruit and shortbread. Mixed stewed fruit, which was really quite nice, and bits of shawbread, and that was nice. Everything else was rubbish, except we used to get rice pudding with raw sip syrup, and I like the raw sip syrup. So you've have a spoonful of that. And that was it. Manchester tart. That was. Do you have that? It was kind of ******. Your base with a newb jam and then cold custard on.
Right. Actually that sounds a bit odd customer.
Probably was, but I just I expected not to like smoothen us, so I tended not to meet them.
Those are games did. Let go. Let's go. Let's go. Play times.
Marbles. Or jellies. Take.
A primary school when Hula Hoop first came out and got paid. Green one.
Girls, girls would have the ropes stripping ropes. Football results, right? No, not near. All the windows in the school.
Check football. Just stood in corners and talked. A lot.
Sophisticated. I remember all this afterwards, you get away.
Find it again sometimes.
And then the P used to be outside and you got these woven mats. There were sort of Oval mats and you all had to take a mat out and put on the playground and sort of line it and do exercises. Things as the weather was dry.
Yeah.
Wasn't comfortable.
If it was warm in the summer because we did have Plainfield hours very school, we're about running races and doing things like that but never played anything like football or cricket.
School, not even in in P/E sessions? No. Did you get P/E?
For that. No, no. Yes, but then in those days it was just you just had one teacher for the whole year. Who taught you? Subjects, practical subjects and P/E and whatever else.
Is is primary school, then specialist? They weren't sharing. That's that's true now, is it not?
Not sure we have a gym teacher and you have a.
No, I don't. Well, not in my day. You had the same teacher. That's very different.
Well, the signature we did. I don't know. Don't you get?
I don't believe it's changed.
Nomadic teachers. What's the other pathetic. OK.
Peripatetic.
Well, you do. You do for us a concern. I don't think you do for.
The things like news are yes.
Like gym.
Hmm.
Don't worry, we won't give her name at.
Well, she plays badminton with us or she takes them for badly enough. So she teaches badminton. It's a primary. Which seems to be a sort of regular thing. It's not an after school activity I don't think.
Because I remember saying today that she'd said to them certain things, I have to be you have to be here for. But you know, so badminton. If you don't behave that can throw you out.
Mm hmm.
So it must be a following something.
Just be thought out from, you know, go and sit and watch. You're not playing, you're.
Bad. No, no, no, no. I think it was. Their own free will.
After school time.
Lunchtime. That's what we have. Oh, yes, I remember mother used to work in a Chocolate Factory in Dundee called Lindsay and Rowe.
What can you?
Tell me. I don't know. I just knew it was a Chocolate Factory. It was something I kind of grew up knowing she used to say. Kind of put you off chocolate a bit.
I was gonna.
Ask you no, she did get a taste back for it after she left. Remember doing nothing. And grandparents in running feast lived in a the bottom floor of the tenement in. Oh well, well, side place or something. Remember, they used to go in the dark close and there's this.
Probably doesn't just.
It's off to the right nose, but to be tiny, we sort of kitchen area could get out in. There's a lovely green at the back and the wash houses at the far end there's a flower border right up the top of the flats and a very old tortoise lived there called Toby. Used to see reputedly about 100 years old, but it probably wasn't. No. Big big feather bed in the corner of the. Sort of living room, but did have a bedroom. But there's also. You and the sort of. Yes. Big Featherbed, which was lovely. The fine place with the so we see that you could sit beside. In Gluc no, just. You used to get fireplaces built in sinks up at the corner, like those sort of stool things.
Did they have a built in toilet? An indoor toilet?
Properly docks. I doubt it, but I can't actually remember that although I must have used it because we used to go there for. Week at a time.
Visiting my father's cousin.
Well, Auntie mine was down the corner in Brook Street, and she had her. They had an inside toilet, but they didn't have a bathroom. The time clinic.
Kitchen. So what? I don't know. A tin bath to use in front of the fire.
We just used to get washed, washed in the kitchen at the kitchen sink. Well.
You when you were visiting, but how about other adults who lived?
I don't know. There, but they were posh because they had a front room with a piano in it. It was a bedroom as well, but.
OK. Used to. 2 lines of thought I was going on at the same time. You used to have roller skates, didn't you? The roller skates.
I had to. I had roll skates, yes.
Was that when they were quite new? I had no clue when roller skates were introduced, right? So you don't have a time belt?
My cousin Ian's down in Griffs after him. And he asked, didn't you think? Never wore to?
Did you alternate to save the tyres, didn't have tyres or metal wheels? No.
And I didn't.
Yeah. My first one is a metal wheels, I'm sure. And they made a heck.
All, all shiny little frame.
A rocket. When you went down the street. That not underneath it used to adjust the length on.
Them that was at my first pair of roller skates.
Mm.
Well, we want to put into the jumble sale down at the school. There's something about it.
That's where.
I don't remember that time listening about it. Or did they used to bend or something?
Went after I finished Wism or where I got from killed somebody.
Now there was something wrong with it was it was it walking wheel or something? But you could get a new word. What you. Tyres for? Was a sort of square wheel on it.
Uh.
But whether anyone would ever bother putting another. Yeah, I know that's really. Very good for breaking.
Oh, that kind of breaking. Yes, yes.
Right here I go. Probably as well. Yep, so. And will you also not one of the first people in Scotland to have jeans?
Right.
What's the story?
Yes, quite arguably. My father's sister in America. I used to send over parcels two or three times a year.
I thought you got them when? Were out there.
No. Oh, no. It's long before we'll wait for that. It was when I got my first two wheel bike. Political. I think my 9th birthday that was 13th and it's just about. Then the parcel arrived and there was a pair of jeans in it for me. And. Along with a sort of cowboy shot checked. Quite warm. Sure. Yes. There's nothing quite like that.
He was just standing out here, Scott and Beach with the boat I.
Just get it.
No, he did. He did. We talked about it last week when we were Johnny.
The beach down the West Coast of Scotland is that way.
No, that was aimov, actually, about that photograph student.
But did you go down to down to air down to Largs and?
Yes, got my first holiday ever with an air.
On when you.
Too young to remember it. Somebody like thoughts new had a house. Here. Yeah.
I guess I saw just they lived there. Please stay with it. Oh, I see.
Used to go to the North East as well, didn't you?
No.
I thought to know if you want then I thought no. I thought you went into it. A disaster, right?
Once we're at Aberdeen for the holidays, so disaster. Now we went to a broth more often went to Saint Andrews and we did A1 holiday in Eyemouth. No, Aberdeen was a disaster because the daughter of the the people who had the. The boarding house was called those days. Sort of. Stealing from virgin. Oops. And the police were involved in all that. Rather tainted out, you have Aberdeen.
I just there's not all that up.
No, maybe not. But you know, something happens like that. You have a bad impression of the whole place.
Yeah.
Since I don't remember the weather been particularly good or just a big city after all, isn't really a holiday place. We'll add the beach ballroom and it wasn't in that. Bowman, two things numbering beats Colubrin.
It's still going.
Thought she was trying to. No, it's probably probably more like a competitive famous. It's always been famous with the beach body problem.
This is. A boulder or is it like a club?
No other father. Once I stop going on holidays with them, went to this is.
Oops, on the Black Isle area.
I sort of Elen Elgin Elen. There's one place in particular.
Oh yeah, that's right.
I was sort of around there from where they were based, pit new pits, LIGO.
Yeah.
I knew Peter head. Isn't it up a bit?
Well, it's inland quite a bit.
Yeah, yeah.
That area.
Used to get your meals included, didn't you? It was boarding house and used to get all your meals.
Well, you had either of a full board or half board or you had attendance. Early years after the war.
Do you mean by attendance?
The landlady cooked your own food for you. I suppose it was time to rationing and landladies couldn't go out and buy what needed for. All the borders. So you took your own coupons. You got 12. You either got your own food in or you gave the coupons to the landlady and she went and registered them. That her phone, whoever. And it's an effective. Is your food. And she just made it. So that was because of your. But he was in Russian still being a feature. But.
Yes. Did you already do much in Scotland when you were young before you moved? Here.
Well, yes, it might, Steve. Relative money. Faith was the the usual place. Used to come up usually just with my mum. You're not to be working. Apart from that the first holiday I remember was in Red car, in the caravan, and I think it rained all day. And I remember buying a little she learned about some sister night with there, and we bought little ornaments and one was a little sort of. Woman with a barrel beside him kept matches him and the other had a little sort of apron on it. Changed colour blue when it was going to rain and pink when it's going to be dry or something. And I remember there used to be in the sort of display cupboard bit at home and I broke one of them one day. When I hid the bits in the Sugar Bowl. Nobody would ever that. Didn't know anything about it when they were found.
None.
I think you didn't get away with it. No. I think the suspect. Yeah, we used to go so quickly. My dad's at work at a caravan he used to to drive us through to the caravan site there or we'd go to Scarborough because it was cricket there. But I'd like the. To play or just watch. Let me just watch. Money face with something. The place I came to, which most often was the much. There's probably more now, certainly more houses, but you suck in and sort of visit relatives. And we went to the beach, played on on the beach. Mm. Remember visiting the cousin? She was in the school on the Mains on High Street and Moneythe and we went along one day at play time and spoke through the room. I've been at the same. I don't have been anything on the beach except used to collect shelves. And further along you'll only be able to go so far along because it was Barry Budden, which was that an army campus. And then the other way was Bosque Ferry, which was where my mom and dad had met because my dad was stationed there.
Trump.
In the army, so they met through that.
Are we still there or are you doing that? Something's going on.
Another question, how long was he there? And now because he was abroad as well, wasn't he?
Oh yes, it was abroad during the war. He joined the army early. He gave a false birth, Sir. So he always reckoned he had two birthdays, like the Queen. But you can't remember age you wasn't enjoying. But I've got to. Papers and things upstairs somewhere. You must have been stationed up there before he was sent abroad.
Why brought you? And just because it's sort of out the way and.
Heavy industry and indeed.
Right. And in fact, well, my mom lived there after she was born in 1939, and my dad must have gone abroad then or shortly after. Then I can't remember. He's abroad. When she was born. To think so, and my mom lived with her parents. When he faced for a long and then when they moved South. Sheila can remember the lived with my my Gran. That's my dad's mother in Stockton because she remembers it. It was a dark house and she was scared going upstairs because it's dark and everything. She didn't like it. And then by the time I was born, we'd moved to Norway. Because I was eight years younger. Still. Baby, poor baby boomer. Well, no, it's really the year before because the year before visit school had an extra streaming it because there were so many. Really.
I thought from 4:00 to 6:00 hours.
Well, yeah, but well, it must have slackened off a bit after the first. We used to have lots of postcards and things that my dad sent photographs and sent them to all.
Particular.
He was in India. And I'm sure he was in Africa as well, India. And London pictures of him with a horse. And he was a gunner, picked him standing beside his big gun and stuff.
My controls.
What comments?
Just tell you the medals you've got. Which champions are?
It will do. I'm sure it will, but it was certainly in India, couldn't be even about it.
Mm.
And then Nina didn't want to travel after that. He said he travelled enough during the war, so he's never interested in going anywhere.
OK, you saw that. OK.
OK.




