So. Can you think about what your earliest memory is?
Mm hmm, yes, yes, my earliest memory would. Was born in 1944, so my earliest memory would probably be about 1940. 7:00 or 8:00. When I was 4 year old and I had gone to the ponds to get some fish. And I had a jam jar with some string around it and I had a fishing net and I had about 15 little minnows in the water and it was really, really happy. So I brought it back. And I was climbing up the stairs to go into the house to show off my catch and the a girl who lived above me, who, sadly was Down syndrome and and was a wee bit aggrieved. Came up the stairs, grabbed the jar, swung it as hard as she could, smashed it against the wall and all the fish were in a big puddle on the steps, squirming about and the just the noise of the glass. Crashing and then all these little minnows squirming in the pond was just too much for me, and I evidently rang off. You know, yelling my head off and I don't know what happened to her, but then, you know, she she couldn't do the help, but she was just she wasn't. She wasn't. Right. Sheila name was. And that's that's one of my earliest memories. Of that was in Craigie St in the tenement. A room in a kitchen. Five of us in that House mother was 6, but then my dad died. Five of us in that house, my mum, two brothers and a sister and myself. And I was the youngest. And the toilet was on the stair. There was no. Electricity until just before we left that we had gas gas. And we left Craigie St in when I was 7, so that would be 1951. We left Craigie St and just it was just before that that they got electric lighting. In these houses, the outside was lit by gas lamp. You know the outside lights in the street and on the stairs, the man the lamplighter came at night and put the lights on and came in the morning and put them off. There was an actual lamp lighter. And he came with a great big long pole that he would because the gas lamps were really high up to keep them away from the kids. So he came up with a great big long pole. And I don't know how he did it, but he just seemed to stick the pole into the glass. And the light either went on or it went off. I've never yet discovered what that poem was all about, but that was what he did. So it was a it was a. Wonderful place to live in many ways. And.
I haven't. Very. How old were you when your dad died?
I was just coming up for two when my dad died, he had some some injuries in the war and when he came home from the war he was most unwell and he developed tuberculosis. And there was no cure for tuberculosis in these days. So he was put into hospital. And when it became clear that he was going to die, my mum took him out of the hospital. We were all sent out of the House because it was so contagious. Tuberculosis. So we were put away from the house, you know, ferried out to different people, to look after us. And my mum looked after him. And then he died. And the five of us stayed on in the house until, as I say, 1951. And then we were sent out to what? To me. Was the country and was a. And the Council had started to decant people from the central centre of the city out to the housing schemes. Which virtually were built in the country and certainly for us townies we were surrounded by fields in the housing estate that we were sent to. So no, that was in Fintry in Fintry and there was 3 bedrooms. There was a bath which was a huge luxury. There was a bath. And the toilet. And of course, the biggest luxury was that it was indoors. You know, we didn't have to go out to the toilet. And we had a proper kitchen and a living room and a front and back door and a garden. And that was an incredible for for me. And I only had a short experience of my life in a a tenement. But for people who were born and bred and brought up in tenements all their lives. About to a Council house in the country. With all these facilities was just amazing. But one of the problems with that was the Council were not very long sighted because they put people out there, but there was no infrastructure built. The roads weren't completed, so there was no transport could come out here. There was no shops, so it meant that people had to walk into town. Now it wasn't that far. It wasn't that far, but. It did mean a hike into town for shopping. Then the started through time to have some vans come out, you know, a Baker van would come out and a butcher van and a fish van. But of course they were expensive. Because they, you know, they had their overheads for their vehicles. So most people trekked into the town and then gradually, gradually shops were built as the schemes developed and got bigger because we were in the 1st. That was ever built in Finchley. It's called Finchy Gardens and that was the 1st St of this. What is now a huge housing estate. But when the same in the 1st St was built there was, there was no, there's no I mean there was actually, no, the road wasn't built, the houses were built and they were complete, but there was no Rd, you know? So it was a kind of a muddy track up to the house. It sounds incredible because it's all laid out now and everything's, you know. Everything you know, all the roads are complete and there's a huge infrastructure. Now there's schools and shops. You know, clinics and all this kind of thing there now, but there wasn't in these days. But anyway, nevertheless, I thought I had died and gone to heaven because. Was just incredible. In fact, I kept running. Evidently, I don't remember this, but evidently I kept running through the house. It was such a novelty to go in one door, run through the house and out the other door. It was a huge a huge novelty. And then, like every other novelty, it just became, you know, I just wore it off and it was just your house. And that was fine. But.
Were you at school?
Yeah, well, there's another story with that. My, my mum, I had gone to the school grouplands, which was near to Craigie Street. And so when I moved out to the housing scheme, my mother, I think the next day my mother took me to the window and pointed to the wee school. Field a few fields away, there was a wee school in the field and she said to me see that that building there and I suggest she's. That's the school you're going to tomorrow. And of course I did my usual. You know, I don't want to go to that school because, you know, I've got all my friends are at Cleveland's. I don't want to go there. Oh, well, you've no choice. That's where you're going and the next day she took me down to the corner of the street and 2 girls 1 was called Ruth Gold and one was called Dorothy Wright. And I remember them so clearly. And she said to them, you going down to that school and they said yes and said, well, take her with you. That's true. Now there would be maybe a year older than me. You know, they're bigger than me, but they took me to the school and they took me into the headmaster and said this is a New Girl. She's starting here today. So he said, you know, what's your name? Give him a name. And he said go along to room. And I just had to walk along the corridor and go into room 4 and the teacher there said just come in. She looked at the register. She was obviously expecting me. Looked at the register and said just sit down there and my worry was that on the blackboard they were doing joined up writing. Joint operate and she said to the class. Now I want you to copy this passage into your daughter and you handed me a split new daughter and a split new pencil. And. And I said I'm sorry, but I don't do that kind of writing. And she said, well, you do now. That's the kind of writing we do here. So having gone from just, you know, I don't know what you call the not join the unjoined writing. To the to the joined up writing was. I'm it shifted from that in a in a matter of a morning and. There and then came home and was showing off that I could now write in in big people's writing, you know, big people. That is the way big people wrote. So that was my. That was my Jordan. I was very pleased with that. I was worried to begin with. But yeah, I was very pleased with that. And I loved that school. I actually loved that school. It's called Lynn Lathan primary. And one of my teachers. I was a lady called Eleanor Leith that we of course called Miss Leith. And she told us her name was Eleanor and. She I was a bit of a mischief, but she seemed to like me. And one day I would. I had a sore tooth and because we didn't have a dentist or anything. God, I don't have a toothbrush in these days. I mean with a dentist. But anyway, she said. What's wrong with you, 'cause? I'd maybe been mumping and sulking because I was in pain with this tooth and I told her. Told her how to sore tooth and she says well, get your mummy to take you to the dentist. And and I said, well, my mum doesn't have time to do that, you see, because you know, I mean, we don't know where the dentist is and all this nonsense. So she said, well, I'll tell you what she said. I'll take you to a dentist and. At 4:00 I got to sit in her car. That was a huge excitement. I got to sit in her car and she took me to this dentist down in Strobeswell. We went in, we went up the stairs. It was up. A stair, went up the stairs. It was a bit scary, but scary because I'd never been in a dentist. And all the instruments for the head and everything. But the great thing was on his on the radio, which was in his the surgery bit he had Scottish music playing and all the time the music was playing he was singing along to it, you know, I mean, it was amazing. And he sat me in the chair and give me a swirl around, let it swirl around me. But he knew I was frightened. And Miss Leith just popped her head in and then popped her head out again. And he did whatever he did to the tooth. I don't know whether he I don't even know whether he pulled it out or whether he filled it, that I can't remember. But he looked after the tooth anyway, and he gave me a little a little round tin of toothpaste and a tiny little brush. He just gave it to me to take home and he said 'cause, he said you you brush your teeth often and I said. No, I didn't have a toothbrush or toothpaste, so he gave me the toothpaste and the toothbrush and he said now when you go home, you need to brush your teeth. Teeth in the morning, before we go to school and at night before you go to bed. And he said you have very good teeth, but you want to keep them, you keep them good. You eat many sweeties. And I said no because we didn't. We didn't get sweeties. But for some reason one of the tooth had gone a bit, but my teeth had gone a bit bad. So that was that. And it was the next day at school. And Miss Leith ran me back to wear. I lived by that time. Now we were in a prefab and so she rang me back to my to the house or or to the street where I lived anyway, and I jumped out the car and she said to me, did you notice the name on the dentist's? Did you notice the name on the plaque outside? And I said no, and I've even noticed the black, never mind the name. And she said, well, the name says Gordon S Leith. A dental surgeon and Gordon S Leith is my father and I says your father's a dentist and she said yes, she said. So now I went to that dentist for years after that, you know, went every six months or whatever it was, you know, for your checkup. And. And kept up, you know, with the dentist for many, many years after that. Until I went to Mr ****, you know, that you that you've that you went to.
Yes.
Mr Leith died because he was even. He was a good age when, you know, he was quite elderly. When I went with that night with Miss Lees so he was a good agent, he died and then I didn't have a dentist for a wee while. And then I started going to Mr ****. And then he was the lifelong dentist. After that, looked after you folks teeth as well. But yeah, I loved that school. It was a great school. It's a yeah. Yeah. She was a really, really nice person, Miss Leith. And she was really. She used to give us all a Christmas present. Everybody got the whole class. Got a Christmas present now. It was just a small thing, you know, maybe a penny dainty or something like that, but the great. That you got called out. The. Your desk. You've got cut out of your seat to come and get it. You felt so important, you know, and she always kept me to last. I was always last because I I was alphabetically. I was last. But nobody behind me. Alphabetically because I was T for Tate and and I was always last and that anticipation because it was always in a little brown, a little brown paper bag. So you didn't know what what you were going to get and everybody got something a wee bit different. And oh, anticipation of that was amazing. And then you would go out and you'd see something like. Well, I hope you have a very nice Christmas and. We'll take care on the roads and then we'll see you after the after the holiday. You know, she always said that every year we'll had her for 2-3 years. I think so. She she sticks in my memory as far as teachers are concerned because she was so kind and she was really kind as well to all the naughty ones. You know how you know? Including myself. You had these naughty people and she was the one as well. When she'd said I was misbehaving one day and she said to me. Get. I can't remember. Didn't know she's here outside. No. Yeah, she said out. And I didn't mean I didn't know whether she meant out the class or out the school out of Dundee. Or out of everything. So I thought, well, if you stand outside the door and the headmaster comes along, you get into trouble because he knows you've been put out for being naughty. I felt the only thing to do is go home. And I went right over school and the thing was, I knew that that if I got home once I got home, there would be nobody in. I would be stuck because my mum was working, all of us at school. My brother was home on leave from the army. But I wasn't very sure about that. Whether he would be home anyway. It was a winter's day, a dark day, and when I came up to near the prefab I could see the light on in the bathroom. So I'm I knew he was in, so I went in. And he said to me, why are you home? You should be at school. And and I first of all said I was. And I wasn't feeling well. I was feeling sick. So that's first of all, I thought I'd try that tack. To me, this is Neil, and he said to me, don't look sick and I saw him do the godly sore tummy and eventually it came out that I'd been put out because I was wanting to ask him whether she meant out forever or just out. So he said, well, if you've been naughty. I think you've probably been told.
To.
Get out. Out of the classroom, not out of. And certainly not out of education, the education system. So you said now you don't know what you have to do. And I said no, he says. Well, you have to go right back after lunchtime. And you have to stand at our desk when the school bell rings, you line up, then you go to her, you get into school, get into the classroom, go to our desk and say, Miss Leith, I'm really sorry for misbehaving this morning, and I won't do it again. And and I said, well, no. See, I can't do that because everybody will laugh. And he says, well, that's why you have to do it. That's why you've got to say you're really sorry and you won't do it again. And I was going back down the road saying, I'm not doing that. I'm not doing that. I'm just going to sit in the classroom and I'm not saying anything. I'm just going to go in, go to my desk and sit down. And I went into the classroom and I don't know why I did this. I don't know why I did it to this day, but I sort of sidled up to the day. And she was trying not to look at me. She could see me at the corner of her eyeb. She was trying not to look at me. Eventually she turned round and she said. Yes. And I said what Neil said for me to say with great difficulty, but I said it and she just said one word. So I just done from the desk and sat at dinner was happy because I thought I'm back in again. You know, I wasn't quite sure how things were going to go if I was. Out forever. You know, how was it going to learn things or or when could I play in the playground if I wasn't? The school. You know, so I was happy to be back in that school system again.
Quite no need for that kind of thing. So burnt you because there was the time at nursery as well that you just sort of might be wrong until it's.
Uh huh. Uh. Well, I was actually evolved from school because, you see, I was brought up in the nursery and I was in the nursery when I was months old because my mum had to go to work and there was all these council nurseries where babies were taken in because it was just after the war and. You know, things were very, very different. And anyway, I was brought up in Ellen gown nursery. Every day I went there and I was virtually just taken home at night and put to bed. So the nursery was my home. The nursery was my was really like my home. And when I went to school. I I went to school the first day. Went, you know, was taken in, registered and everything and at play time when we came out to play, I just walked out the school and walked back to the nursery, which was within walking distance of the school. I just went right back to the nursery because I thought, well, it's time to go home now. Fun enough. And then it evidently appeared at a window that very low windows in this nursery school, the windows were deliberately low. You know the the windows actually came down quite low so that the nurses could see out if the children were playing out. But I had looked in the window. Of the matron of the the nursery school and she was sitting at her desk writing, and she looked up and she said, evidently, she said to my mum all she could see was this. He had a blonde curls looking in the in the window and thinking, oh God, she's back. She's going. Oh, God. We've got her back. So she, she beckoned to me to come in, so now went into her room. She said to me. What are you doing here? And I said, well, I just came back because I've been to school now and it was OK, but that's it. And she said no. You don't come back here, Audie. You have to stay at school. You're at school now. You don't come to nursery school. And she phoned the school. Said you'll have to send her sister along for an all of was in a few primaries above me. You'll have to send her sister for her. So all have came for me dragging. On. Road because she was fed up. She'd been taken out of a class that she was really enjoying. Maybe art or something, and she had to come and collect me. So she took me back. Now, after that, I think I was the start of unlocking gates and things in schools, because then I lock the gate. I just walked out of the gate. And I never actually did go back to the nursery school, but. I was really sad, you know, because it it really was my my life, the nursery school. It was my home for for all these years. And the nurses were like moms, really. You know, the nurses that the nurses. We're all because you were taken there like my mum started in the mills at. She would probably start at half seven 7:45. So I'd be taking it at the back of seven just after. And then I wouldn't be picked up until half five, 5:45 at night. And then, of course, you know, my mum would be tired, so we'd be taken home and bathed, or or maybe not even bathed, just taken home and put to bed. Really. So that's why it was important that the nursery. That's why the nurses school is so important to me.
And what was your? Doing machine also working the mills.
Uh. Yeah, yeah. You see, there was nobody to look after you because everybody, you know, my mum's sisters and brothers. What all in the mill and the all the, the all the a different job and my my mum was a spoolwinder. Which just is exactly what it says. She wound the flax on the. And there was a that one of my other aunts was a Weaver, and there was a finisher, and there was a a flattener. And there was a a sparker and oh, there was all the different trades of. The Jew industry and they all worked in different parts of it. You know, my mum said at one stage. There was a member of the family in every every sector of the mill. Right at the beginning and then because the flax goes through different processes, you know it arrives off the ships from PAC or arrived off the ships from Pakistan and then it went through various processes. And my mum reckoned that at one stage. You know the family had all grown up and at one stage there was one of them in each in each area. The mill.
Siblings did.
While she was the oldest of 13. Chad, Chad, Chad, 12, brothers and sisters. There was. Six girls and seven boys, 6 girls and seven boys. Twins. Joseph and James, they died in infancy. They were about four months old. Evidently when they died, but that was common long ago, sadly. Because that was before inoculations. And that's when things were. People with that size of a family. Certainly couldn't afford to nourish them all. You know they weren't. Wouldn't be all well nourished, wouldn't have. And they lived a very hard life. In a very, very. House. In the centre of the town, near the docks. And my mum, being the oldest, had all the work, had a lot of work to do, you know, besides her, besides her job, she had a lot of work to do in the house with the children and. It doesn't sound like a great life at all. That wasn't a good life. My mum's dad. Yeah, he was called Joseph and he was. He was a bit of a dead loser, as my mum would put it because he drank very heavily and he worked. He worked on the docks, he worked. He was a play, what they call a plater and that was a skill that that was to do with shipbuilding. Plating was to do with, you know, putting the outside pieces on the on the actual ship. And so that's when my grandfather did. But very often he was never at his work because he couldn't lift his head off the pillow if he was really drunk. But Magrani used to be able to go down and get his wages. Yeah, she would go to the docs. And they knew what my grandfather was like, and they knew that she had this huge family and she used to get his way. She just picked up his wages. He didn't touch his wages. And but ** *** said he always got money somewhere for drinks. She's never, never yet really knew where he got it from, but he always managed to get money for a drink. So she had a very hard life, extremely hard life, and yet she was very tough. Very resilient, which was in her 80s and she was still helping, you know, washing nappies for her various, you know, grandchildren and. So she was really a bit of a character. Yes, yes. She couldn't get round your name, Kenneth. She couldn't. You mean cared as that was, you should never heard of it. Of course. But then it sounded really like a boy, so she couldn't have. Couldn't have cope with that at all. But. Yeah, I think they had a really, really hard time. And when my mum. Was expecting me. This just gives you an idea. Of the culture of the time when my mum was expecting me Mahar, her mum who's my Gran had gone to. The pictures had gone to see a film and they were sitting in the pictures and my mom. You know that her due date was a few weeks away, so, but she started to feel really uncomfortable in the pictures and she said to my grandma, I'm not really not feeling too good. So my Gran said, Oh well, she listened to her saying that for me while and eventually she said, oh, come on. Walk up the road. So they started to walk up the road and walking up the road was becoming more and more uncomfortable for my mum. It wasn't that far, but it was up a hill and she was and she really was uncomfortable anyway. They got up to the circle round about where my granny lived because we were going back to my. And her my mum's brothers, several of my mum's brothers were hanging about on the corner as they did in these days. So my granny says you better go down for the midwife and my mumma definitely said. I don't think I'm needing a midwife. She's. I think I've still got a bit to go yet, but I'm really. And my granny. To Thomas, go and get the midwife. So Thomas took T seals. And ran down through Mccreagy to find the midwife by which time now I we had got where my mum and my Gran had got home and my mum. My Gran said to my Mama. You better go through and lie down because she had been looking a bit white. And poorly. So she went through to lie down. And I came into the world and my Gran said the midwife arrived and my Gran had just said too late, you know, she was babies born so. My grand virtually brought me. So that was, you know that was that and evidently Mcgran had brought quite a few people, you know, a few of the neighbours that had gone into to labour too quick. You know, the midwives didn't get there in time. My grand thought, nothing of it had 13 of her own. She knew when she would be delivered some of them she knew fine what to do and and and so on. So I mean, it was quite nice because she used to tell me years later and that, you know, she had brought me into the world and fortunately it was quite an easy birth. You know, there was no complication. I'm sure if there's complications then you'll have to get into hospital. But most babies in these days were born at home and you only went to hospital to have your baby these days if there was a complication. Most infants were born at home. So my granny certainly brought me into the world. And.
Common in. Was it coming for men to be around these days?
No. Oh, no. Oh, no. I wasn't coming for meant to be around when you were born Kennis. Some men did it. Some men chose to do it, but it wasn't common. And I think a lot of it. Don't even think it was much. The men didn't want to be there. The hospital didn't want them there. It was. They've changed. You see, that's all changed now. With the hospital and I think it's changed for the better. The hospital recognises that mums want the dad there, want their husbands there in some cases, but in in, certainly in my mums day. Oh my God, my, my, my dad. Well, certainly my dad. Was at sea, you know, he was in the Navy and he was away with the war. But I would have doubted if he would have been there. And none of them the boys, were allowed in the room. You know, none of the brothers are. Or certainly my brothers were allowed into the room. Yeah, it was very, very different in these days. But I think I think my mum may the time I came along had probably just had enough babies, you know, should have brought up, practically brought up all her own siblings, and then she had four of her own. So. I think she'd just, well, had enough by that time. And. That's right. That's right. So I mean, it was hard. It was hard for her, there's no doubt about it. But yeah, it just seems it seems that long ago, but in yet in some ways it's a million light years from from nowadays. You know how things have changed and and some things have definitely changed for the better, but. I still think some things were were better in our day in that you know, we could, we could play in the street. There's no cars. I mean, cars never came along our street cars. I wasn't. I was. It wasn't in a car until I was about 7. Because and only reason I was in a car was because I was a flower girl. At our next door Neighbour's wedding and Oliver and I got to sit in a in a car and we thought that was amazing and I I got gloves. That was another amazing thing. I got that. I mean, I didn't worry. I was like you when you were little kids, you never like dresses and things. Neither did I. And the only way I would wear the dress was. I had gloves I got to wear these gloves. I remember my mum saying. I mean, it's ridiculous. You know? She doesn't like wearing a dress, but she's happy to wear the gloves. So for some reason we had these little white, you know, wrist gloves. And I thought it was. I was really something in these gloves and. Yeah.
Do you think it's much safer than for children, or do you think it's just that we hear more about what goes on?
I think it was generally safer, and yet I was taken away from the street, but we won't go into that, but I think it was generally safer and the reason for that is that an awful lot of the neighbours hung around the street. There was more, there was more community. Spirit, I think then. And that might be just because even if the layout of the houses I don't know, but there seemed to in our street, there was a 2 shops on the end of the street. You know there was a. Green grocer and a grocer like a fruit shop and and a grocery store. So and the the the ladies of the street, certainly the elderly ladies of the street used to sit on the short window sills and, you know, share their snuff boxes and chatter away of an evening, you know, they were all there was always somebody in the street. So of course, when kids were playing, you know, the fell over or they were unwell or they were fighting something, these elderly ladies were unwittingly. Babysitters, you know, 'cause, they'd say, hey, stop that or, you know, they would. They would get involved in some frack of of of anything was happening and I think that culture has gone. I think that culture has gone because people are. Well, I don't. I think I think it might have just been the layout of the buildings and everything. I'm not sure and the fact that it was there was no traffic came along the street and there was no buses you see in these days it was tram cars and the tram cars came down. The Main Street because of the. Cable line. So the street really was. A playground. The street was the playground. And we had to park. We had Baxter Park, but then you couldn't go up to Baxter Park unless somebody took you there. You know, because it was a fairway step for us. But the boys, you know, my brothers, they, they played in the street, they played football in the street and there was air rage. There was air raid shelters around the back. In our close, you know for, for, for the war, and of course they weren't taken down. Even after the war finished. So the best thing in the world was to climb on the top of them and there would be maybe. 910 feet high. You know they weren't that high, but high when you're wee. And of course you weren't allowed on them. There was a big rule and kids weren't allowed on the top. Like to go in them, but they weren't allowed to go on the top of them, and they were all manner of ways, sort of wooden ladders and things. And we we sort of piles of stones that that would be erected to get you up. Neighbour all hidden round from the from the windows hidden round the back so that your mum if she looked out she couldn't see climbing onto the shed and you never climbed on a shelter. Of course that was within sight of your own window. Everybody went to another shelter. And there was one day that Oliver and I were, you know, they'd got me up onto the Shabbos only about 3, seemingly, and they'd got me up on to this shelter. And, I mean, we were just. We just. We were so. Mischievous and being so dare devilish. You know, on the top of the shelter. And I can remember actually being a bit wimpy and thinking, oh, you know, it seems so. Up here. Oh, and then the next thing was the policeman came through the Big Bend and all because he was the top of his helmet. And all of his destiny lie flat on your face. And don't say a word. So I'm spread eagled on the top of this shelter, and little did we know that this guy could just stand on the pile of stones that we got up on, and then we could see his whole head looking across. And all he did was a great big man. And all he did was put over these massive hand, pluck me off of this shelter and, you know, lift me down. But drop me a bit of foot from the bombs so that I didn't get down with too much ease. And then he. Licked his pencil. Shift through his notebook to get to the right page, and then, he said. Name. So of course your name meant in the policeman's book and the ID now was the policeman. Going to. To your door and tell your mum you'd been on the shelters. So all of when I decided we were actually going to have to run away. We could not go home because the punishment would fit the crime and the crime was bad and the punishment would be worse. So we thought, well, we'll just make a run for it. So we went out the clothes and we got along to the end of the street and all have just kept saying to me, just keep following me. Just keep following me. And then we looked up the street and all of we can see this. My grand coming down. Albert St bustling. A denture. She always came down. So she was on a mission. She came down and she shouts to all of. Come here. So of course you seem to do this. You see, so all of goes up. What are you doing? What are you doing on the end of the street? Your one is supposed to. On the end of the street is you're also supposed to be in the middle of the street, so all I've said, we're just looking for somebody. She's well get and that means. Get meant get home. So which is done tail and went back and we were sort of sat outside for a while thinking well, has he been yet? Has he been to the door yet or or will he go after because we thought well we need to go. We need to get some tea. Some tea, some tea sometimes. So we're unsure whether. We should go. And have the tea and then get the. Or or we should not go. But I'm not. I mean, I'm. I've got this story in my head, and I'm not just sure what happened, but certainly we never got into trouble. So I don't think the guy ever went near the door. I don't think the policeman did. But on saying that, we never went on the shelter again. Because we've just got such a fright that if my mum, like if a policeman went to your door, I mean that was the end of the world, you know.
Can you remember Russians number?
Had ration books right up until we didn't have ration books in Fintry, so we'd imagine I think 1948 or 4849 would be the end of the rationing, I think. And that's why with never any sweeties. Because you did get coupons for sweeties, but you could swap them for coupons for an egg. This kind of thing. And of course, my main sweeties were were for rich children, you know? So we never, ever got sweeties. I can remember getting an Easter egg. When I was quite big, when I say that maybe 8 or 9 from Uncle John, but all of a nine Easter egg, and I mean you just thought all your birthdays have come together and Easter egg to yourself and Warren, Woolworths and the woman went to put mine in a bag. You know, put it in a bag and I didn't want it in a bag as I had to show it off. I wanted everybody in the world to see this Easter egg. I knew they show off that it was mine. And of course my mum confiscated the Easter egg as soon as we got home. The Easter egg was put into the cupboard and we were only allowed a tiny little bit every day and she was allowed a tiny little bit of our Easter egg every day. So with the result that Easter egg lasted seemed to last for. But we just, we just didn't mean you couldn't steal it. You know, you couldn't mean with. That did occur to us with hops. We could go and steal a bit more, but she knew she knew what stage that. Egg was. So you could not steal it and. And I reckon I've got a theory on this because I reckon that's why we all had good teeth. You know, we never had a blimming toothbrush. But then we never had sweeties and we didn't have biscuits. You know, you didn't have a lot of sweet things. Didn't have really a lot of anything, but you certainly didn't have a lot of sweet things. But yeah, I've got a lot of. I've got a lot of happy memories. I don't have memories sadly of, like, ever getting on my mum's knee or getting a story or I mean, we didn't have any story books. Or. I loved. I loved going to the the little story story classes in the library. There's a little story telling classes where you could primaries 1-2 and three got allowed to go to the library and a lady would come and read a story to you. And. That was great. I love that because this lady would make all the characters come to life. You know, she would speak like the character did now, so that was really clever. Because because she became that character in the book, you know. But after you came out of primary three, that was it. You know, you'd never got another story in your life. That was the end. The story so I I don't have memories of that kind of home life, but I have. I have happy memories of. Of situations and incidents at school and outside of home life. You know I have that.
When did you start going skating? 'cause. That's the thing that.
Mm hmm. Yeah, skating. I started to go when I was probably in secondary school. 12. Yeah. Started going when I was 12, started to try and learn to skate. That's a laugh because, you know, you spent more time on the on the ice than you did on your. But but eventually, you know, after years of years of plodding on, became quite a good skater, certainly quite a good speed skater. Peter used to like to go up at the what they call the lady speed and you know the ladies would go and go around as fast as they could. And then there was the men's speed. Then there was the dancing. Now I didn't. I wasn't good enough for that, but. Yeah. They danced on ice. Yeah. Yeah. Maureen golden. I remember. Maureen Golden the first time I ever saw her ever saw her was on the ice, and it was only after I met up with her. Years later, I said to her, I recognise you. You used to be a nice skater. A dance ice dance skater, didn't you? And she said yes. Beautiful costumes. I remember. She always had different costumes on and she was very, very good. Ships security, ice dance skater, and I still have watching it at that time. Most people just went away and had a cup of tea or a drink of juice. When the these intervals were on, but I always stayed. I was just like to watch the. And a few couples would go and do the dancing together, and it really it really was good. But yeah, light skating.
And what did you?
The skating well. I got a pair. Who? I thought I. Really. Really. Something I got a pair of wine, burgundy corduroy trousers and a white polo neck jumper. And that was a really trendy in these days. That's really trendy. And then I can't remember. I had a skating skirt. I had a skating skirt because girls war, skating, skirts in these days. And I can remember just not liking it because I thought it was too long and. I said to olive, you know. Could you could you shorten that for me? You know, Mrs can't do anything for herself. Said could you could you shorten that for me? And so she starts to pin it up a bit, you see. And I'm not want it shorter than that. Want it shorter than that. And she was saying. You can't get it any shorter than now, for goodness sake, and I think it was Neil Neil. And, you know, came in and all this nonsense and me singing that. And and he said no you don't. He said it's that's a good length away. That is just now. And he said always remember it's what people don't see that's more interesting. Not what they see, and I've never forgotten that. So anyway, I got my skirt that the the decent length and that was that, but we didn't wear skirts too long. And then we'll or two, you know, it was mostly trousers. It was mostly trousers because it was cold. You know, and if you went down with a skating skirt on, you know, you were. You're soaking, you know, in a bit your trousers give you a wee bit more protection and it was great fun and loved this when I met my first boyfriend. Bill, bill. Hadron. As we'd have met him, but he really fancied my friend. He fancied my friend Carol Rains. So it was really after things, things just went sideways. Him and Carol, I had to wait in line. And then after things went really sad with him and Carl. He started to skate around with me. That was what you did you. That meant the boys came and sort of skated alongside you. And when I think back and he offered me a piece of his chewing gum. That was quite serious. That was it. That was serious. I thought he was probably the next question would be would be wanting to marry me. That wasn't the next question. The next question was how far do you live from the ice rink? That was before, he said. Ken and walk you home. So you had to wait and see how far it was and was it in his direction now? And fortunately, it was kind of in his direction. So Bellini sort of skated around together, went for wee walks. You know, maybe about 14/13/14 at this time, went for wee walks on a Sunday around Cape Park and scintillating stuff. And I like, I liked he had a lovely little sister I remember. There was there was Bill and then there was this huge gap, you know, and then his mum had this unexpected. Be, you know, a little girl and she, I, I remember. And I just thought she was gorgeous. Like we Shirley Temple. Only blonde. And sometimes he used to come with her and we would take her to the park and and stuff like that. And then we're just sort of drifted, you know, we just drifted away. But certainly the skating that the first boyfriend. Was on the cards. But yeah, skating was really good fun. And again, it was dead safe because we used to come out the skating and walk all the way home, you know, along the Kingsway all the way home. And it was a long way that. Quite a long way but. And I don't remember any trouble or anybody being. Attacked or assaulted or mugged or anything like that. You know, it was. It seemed to be dead safe. Yeah, it was good. Do you like the skating too, didn't you? Yeah, yeah.



