OK. Well, tell me about if you can. Your first day at school. You must remember. I'm dressed up in uniform.
I don't have. That many memories from kind of. As far as maybe. 809. I mean, there's certain things that will stick. Put certain things that you look back on and see as being significant. Your first day at school aren't significant at the time, really, that if you've kind of been through nursery, it's just more going off and seeing a lot of the same people you'd seen the nursery. Pretty much. So I genuinely have no idea about first day at school kind of earliest memory. Earliest couple of memories. We'd have to be first one is. From when I was. Being in front of the TV. And seeing. The thrill of Michael Jackson. I never always can't been quite musical. So for something that was so musically intense and had all the elements, kind of the dancing. Going on as well. That was kind of staggering for two year old and even now it, in my opinion it it leads the way in music videos and is the best music video of all time and you know partially due to the elements of the dark side as it were. Kind of for two year old, that's fairly exciting. OK, so that that's certainly one of them and another is. Just kind of. A general picture of being a nursery that I can't really put faces. To the picture I guess but. I just have the elements of knowing that I can remember being there. And I can remember the fact that it was a pair of twins. I can't remember who they were at all, but I know they were there and there was a slide and things like that. It's all kind of fairly. There's certain aspects of it where it is fairly clear the picture, but then other bits which just kind of blow into the background. It's kind of a photograph where you focused in on one point and all others get fuzzed out a bit.
Yeah, I remember whacking my son with a hammer and nervous. Really sore. I don't remember much else.
Somebody.
Had the same dress as me, and that's that's all.
And one thing I remember from was either primary one or primary 2 because. Both of them were down at the same wee school, was getting stung and I. Or kind of on the eye on eyelid by either beer wasp. Just a touch frightening. Yeah, going to get cutted off down to the.
Choose.
Doctors, which is quite close. And ice pack. And that's pretty much it, but not what you want. Is this 6 or 7 year old? Also lose really tighter. That was just so inevitable that kids, because it was in the playground, kids are just going to go running into each other as two kids go running from either side, and it's a blind coin. It kind of splodge straight into. And they never did anything about it, like put up a mirror so you could actually see if somebody. Coming, yeah.
Splunge.
I don't think I did. I think it generally took more leisurely. Could see it happening way off. That was pretty. All I can remember from. For six or seven years of my life.
There must be things or objects. The. That that stick out the I don't know. Like a certain type of sweets that you had or. Toys, I guess so.
Now will I? No, I mean, I think I'm aware of some some things that have. Be mentioned the stories, but I have no. True recollection of them. In the same way that. Or it is very much a third party. A third person memory that it's one that's. Like a Christmas present I can remember or supposedly remember kind of the magic teapot or something. I remember what 1 was like. But I don't remember mine, even though it's a standard thing. It's kind of, but I've heard all the stories about me getting it and all that but. Yeah, I simply. Don't really remember something like that. I. Don't know why.
Do you remember Caroline? Kenneth, when you were in the car.
Nightingales can have order. Maybe I was adopted. So yeah, all the memories start kind of. From later on, which is. I don't know why most people have more memories from very early on, but.
I don't know if they do I.
Think a lot of it's invented. Yeah, maybe it is more superimposed. Whereas I've had kind of. I'll tend to think about these things and have realised that a lot of them are superimposed in silk and scrub them from my memory. Pretty much. Far more useful stuff to be learnt. I can barely even remember. When I was in frame with three, when I was up at the big school as it was. In a few memories, like my last day at the school. Because I then went off to veg. And. Memory handic Smarties to everyone. The Smarty bar code. And I also remember kind of. Finding school so easy. The. It can frustrate me quite a lot. That we're still doing basic reading kind of beef, chipping kipper with kind of. 4 words per page.
And.
It was basically far too easy and I could. I was already reading kind of. And stuff. So I do remember. Even then, I didn't have to work to do well. Which I think set me off for bed. Yeah, and I think I think they did set me up for going wrong on the basis that. Up until I was 16, I never had to work to be. Top of the class of thereabout. So if you've never had to do it, then you get out of the way of it or never got into it. Full stop. So then when highest come along and you should do some work. Never quite got into it. I can say it's but. At the end of the day. I think they're overrated. That he's kind of three degrees.
What you want to do afterwards you into academia without.
The degrees, yeah. But indeed, but this. Kind of the qualifications or means to an end. But I think a lot of ends don't need the means that are deemed needed. That for the job I'm doing. Someplace who's asking for a degree? But why? I kind of. I don't think there is a need for a degree, but it's just because so many people have a degree, it then becomes the thing that's needed. The stuff I do in my job. I don't need anything learnt from about primary 5 onwards. Kind of basic adding, multiplying, subtracting, dividing. A bit of English able to communicate other than that. It's just to prove you can learn, but what does proving you can learn speak French. Prove to my ability to fix a computer. There's, but it's one of these things that society is deemed. Necessary, and therefore nobody really goes against the grain.
To cover a wide range of things so you can see what you do like.
I.
I didn't. I only found out in about senior 2. And that was. Well, mate, to an extent primary 7 because we got got our first contact with computers then. And it was a. Of kind of games just to get you into kind of the old pong and stuff like that. And. I was interested then I think largely because. Because Kenneth and Karen were both older than me and Kenneth in particular, who would be more likely to play games with me. He was by that stage. 17 or 18. I'm not really up for playing games with me as much. Kind of doing a six year studies as he was and when I was in Primary 7, he was kind of working hard so it was. Basically, I didn't have anyone to play with unless I was in school or actually went to the both of going out and seeing my mate. So something like a computer game where you can play against some sort of intelligence. Was way better and I think that was kind of one of the things that got me into it. And then next thing, I'm more of the computers was probably second year when we used them in technology. And. I think I think we even have gone in break or something and it was just kind of hanging about with other people who were using them and I started using things like paint and just mucking about and. Then found. Then we got one ourselves and I found I could use it better than that other people, which is. See no real reason. I didn't try hard it, but it was just something that I followed computers logic and I think I think you either do or you. I don't think it's something you really learn. You can try hard, but I think I'll naturally be better. Than anybody who isn't a natural, regardless of how how hard to try. And that's not particularly being arrogant, I would say, although it might come across as being arrogant, but I think it. It's just, I do believe in kind of nature. Dictating over nurture, there's still a combination of both, but nature will always be strongest. I won't ever be the world's strongest man. There 'cause. I'm a bit of a skinny git.
But.
You know, I just kind of computers come naturally. And whereas Dad would try for ages to do something and be all proud of it, kind of I'd do it in a couple of minutes and. Think much of it? That.
We got it back to you. Very Early's memory to do the Michael Jackson video. Do you think that? Do you think that prompted your interest? Subsequent interest in music or do? Think. That that's. Sort of confirmed.
I think it confirmed because. According to Dad, annoy that. Even when I was kind of still in court when he was playing music, I would bounce about in time to the point that he's never seen anybody else move in the same way. At that kind of age.
To to radio or to the piano or.
Oh, both, yeah. Which I think again shows nature over nurture. Because there's no way that is a top response at that age. Because Kenneth and Karen both had the same kind of music going on and the background and didn't react in quite the same way. Oh yeah, that they're both musical. But I think music has played a far more important aspect in my life and it's. I do get lost in music in a way that I don't think Kenneth A Cowan do I think.
I. Kind of like, I'm not sure.
I think I think CHEM is kind of. Could do with the map when he's got listening to music, but I'm truly kind of God knows who I am and to the point that somebody can walk past me who I know and I just won't realise. And that has happened before and they've been saying hello to me and I've just walked straight past them. Just rather embarrassing when you see them the next day. So I think it has. And it was around before I saw it, but that's what interested me in the video was it was something that. Was very intelligently done. It's it's a great tune and. It's pretty much faultless. Everything about it is so well produced and fits in together. It is seamless.
At what point did you start to well and presumably you're not suggesting that at two you were able to discriminate and realise that that was what was at what point did you? I start to flow preferences I suppose.
I think. Probably. Preferences even then. That I'm assuming. That I'd seen other music on the TV. And hadn't reacted in the same way that had made such an impact. And obviously kind of the classical stuff I was being played. By record by. Was coming across and I was reacting positively to that. But the other kind of the more pop side element of it. I had reacted or I'm not aware of reacting to. Maybe I was, but I'm not aware of it. But then this came on, and even as a teen. I don't know why. 'Cause, I don't think as a 2 year old I was able to. Determine a well produced film, but there must there must be something. Almost subconscious about it. And I'm worried about saying subconscious because I don't know how much of a subconscious A2 year old is.
I don't know.
But I don't how much of A conscious attitude has either so. I think it's hard to. Work out what was going on in my mind. Tick Tock is it's such. Like one off memory that. Yeah, that I can look back and see that I was seeing the video. I can't look back and see what I was thinking about the video in a way, so I can't kind of analyse what was in my mind at the time. I was just remembering why he is this music video that. For some reason has me engrossed. You know.
And so, well, Michael Jackson, moving the first influence. What? What sort of I've obviously heard stories of the tapes that you all chose in the car, how we kind of what kind of path did you have musical interest take from?
And for certainly good for years it was mainly classically based because. Kind of the stuff that was playing Dad was the one who could afford music and. Had a system to play it on. And I. Oh, absolutely, without doubt, even now. Oh yeah. No, I'm still into classical music, which to the surprise of a lot of people. But. I didn't buy my first album till about 9293 when I had been 11 or 12 and that was the best rock album in the world. And I think by that stage, my influence was being was mainly led by Kenneth. Because he was very much into the rock side. Where his dad and Caroline and mum weren't. So I think he. Definitely where I got a lot of the music of my teen years from. That particular the heavy stuff because I was annoyed with life. So kind. It very much fits in and it is a difficult teenage music, the kind of heavy metal. And. I think that's why these bands, even going back to the Sex Pistols. Who work in a very aggressive and even before then The Rolling Stones, et cetera, who breaking new ground they by no means. That loud or aggressive by today's standards, but for the time they were, they were kind of that generations voice and it's kind of changed slightly over the years. It went to the Sex Pistols and kind of heavy metal. And now wrapped to an extent. So kind of these were were kind of heavy metals, large influence because I was angry and it kind of fits in and when you're feeling ****** *** with the world and you've got other people who are feeling ****** *** with the world, you feel there's other people there with you. Is it the lyrics?
Music.
Both. You know, kind of a lot of the lyrics. I kind of pretty much were going to change the world and make it good and. It's an interesting thing that you get, particularly in 80s, you and in America, you had all these. Associations like mothers against metal or whatever, who were strongly against heavy metal for its anti Christian viewpoints. And then you look at the lyrics of the songs and like Anthax had one word. Which is basically saying don't care where you come from, just get along and you're thinking. Hang on. That's an utterly Christian view. And yet these Christians are going out for blood against bands like these. He he kind of has the Christian view, the Christian. Or the one singing the metal. I think it's a bastardised Christian view that Christian view should be love everyone, but by going after them, they're losing the Christian view. Which? I think it's a touch ironic really. And I think they didn't endear themselves by going after them. They just made them seem more the victim, which more appeals to the rebellious teenager. So they're going to go for them even more. So I think that was singularly. Bad idea by the mothers against metal and all of the various associations and organisations. I think the intention was vaguely honourable, but they just didn't think. That yes, they want everything to be good, but they don't think about what good is or public choice, general freedom, et cetera. It's kind of moving towards a Big Brother society. Depends on your viewpoint on that, but I'm certainly with our well on thinking. It wasn't particularly good. But. So kind of I did have the metal influences. But I didn't pick up all of Kenneth's influences. Because he's also into his jazz. Which I've never picked up on. But I think what I took from. Metal was. The need for playing very technically difficult pieces. Which also had in common with classical music. Jazz is technical, but I was felt with a lot of certainly the classical music I liked and the heavy metal that the music was going somewhere. It's it's. It's a hard phrase to understand. 'Cause. Well, where's the music going? But it's just something I feel jazz is. Kind of. It's lots of notes, fairly quick quite often. But it doesn't really matter. This. It is it is mid, but I've also seen too many. Live. Jazz musicians who kind of try and fuel or kind of lick oh, we're so harshly done by and you know they're going back to their kind of nice �600,000 house with. All. All that's good. And I think that's something that's. Affecting metal that when metal started out, the bands that were there. Had no money. They were they were playing to survive. So kind of the aggression. Claims against society held me out and I think that's why they've fallen down now that a lot of the bands who've got really big. Lose that edge because, well, yes, I'm just off back to my 5 million penthouse. Kind of. Well, why are you ****** *** with society really anymore? You're doing quite well, so I think that's kind of lost it and that's to an extent why one of the reasons why. Not been that keen on jazz because I feel it lacks emotion that Blues. Is very different that it's less technically orientated, but there's a lot of feeling in it mainly or kind of certainly in its origins it was. Deep South, where kind of the black men only had the Blues. That was their life. When they weren't slaves. And they were very poor and they were playing for. Feeling and sometimes there's more like successful ones to make a living, and if they didn't, they didn't have anything else. So kind of there was feeling in there. But I just feel that Jazz lacks feeling, but. Going back to the kind of classical metal, you kind of both of them are very technically orientated and certainly what I found when I went off to university was that. A lot of the metal bands bowed heavily from classical music, which I found very interesting that particularly kind of first artist that really got me into that was Ingrid Malmstein, who you'd be listening to a song and then it would just go into. Bach or Paganini? And sound really good and I think that's kind of. That aspect has definitely had a profound impact on my choice in music that I have now kind of separated. Away from what? Kenneth likes that my likes are pretty much classical things rocked up or rocky. Things that are very heavily classically inspired. So kind of even over the past six months, the lead female vocals. Which is very much more an operatic thing. As opposed, you get some pop bands that have female vocals, but. They've never really crossed over into metal as much, but they do with the kind of classically inspired metal, with violins and all kind of classical instruments going on in the background. And I think that's. It emerges my 2 main music interests together, not with the popular thing, but I like it.
And I know you're other. Well, one of the big passion perhaps is the motorbike. Yeah. Does that fit into the? Do.
I kind of. Stereotypically, probably fits into the heavy metal aspect perfectly, but it's not related to that at all. I kind of haven't been brighten up and still lament, but. It was kind of. I used to cycle and then. Was kind of thinking, oh, I suppose I should really do with learning to be able to get myself over distances of more than 6 miles. I don't. I don't like criticism, and I felt if I'm in a car, I'm going to get criticised a lot. So kind of being on a motorbike. I'm by myself. Nobody's going to criticise me.
Passengers and people in the.
Yeah. So kind.
Of. I.
Would say most drivers are fairly ******. Y they're safe because they don't break the speed limit. Well, some of them. But that's a whole another story. Oddly, like yes, because you've the power to get out. Obviously, if you crash, there's there's. A lot more that can go wrong in the basis that if you're doing 90 and you come off, it's going to be a whole lot worse than doing 20 and coming off though I've got more safety equipment on when I'm on the motorbike.
But.
It's crashing, hasn't really come into my mind.
It.
They're kind of mum, always kind of worries, but I'm much more what will be will be if I'm going to crash, I'm going to crash. It can have life full of turns and.
It's only normal that she should worry about you. Than you. Yeah, she's not in control of it. You are.
Yeah. Yeah, but I think kind of by the nature or certainly going by other people, likelihood is in my life of riding motorbikes. I will have a crash simply. Well, everyone I know who's had a motorbike other than one who's only got one a week ago. Has crashed the bike so. Logic would take that. In our likelihood will at some point come off my bike. Which is a bit of a pants weighing situation, but I kind of I don't spend any time worrying about it. It's not kind of. It doesn't play on my mind at all.




